so we've covered the right half of the
puzzle primitive types now we're going
to do is turn over to the left half of
the walrus mystery how the walrus
behaves by talking about so-called
reference types so we've said there
eight primitive types in Java byte short
int long etc and any other variable you
declare say a planet or a walrus or an
int array is going to be a so-called
reference type okay that's just the term
for all of the types that are not these
so let's start digging into our
understanding of reference types by
discussing object instantiation z' so
whatever you say new dog or new wall is
a new planet or whatever what job is
going to do is it's going to allocate a
box of bits for each instance variable
of the class here they are listed and
fill them with a default value say zero
or null and then the constructor will
then usually fill every box with some
other value now does it have to but in
this case it will so let's see an
example so when I run this visualizer
here I will see that walrus whenever I
run the constructor once I once I call
new two boxes are created one for the
weight and one for the tusk size and
they're filled in with a default value
of zero now the constructor will come
through and reset them to some other
value in this case though it doesn't
necessarily have to do that so whenever
this code runs what ends up happening
what the new keyword does for us is it
creates two boxes one of size 32 bits
one of size 64 bits for a total of 96 so
that's what happens when we instantiate
an object now it's interesting to
actually reflect on what happens at the
bit level now this is a little beyond
the scope of the class but somehow I
find it satisfying to know that this is
approximately what's going on under the
hood so it's a little bit of a
simplification but in this case whenever
we call new what Java will do is it will
when I say new RS it's gonna dig through
memory and it's gonna find 96 bits
because that's now that's how many it
needs to store the walrus and then it's
gonna fill in those with a constructor
we'll fill in this top bit with a
thousand and this bottom bit here the
blue bits of' 8.3 so this happens to be
8.3 and on a more physical level that's
a rough picture of what's going on now
I'm gonna admit this is a
the simplification the actual size of a
walrus will be a little bit bigger than
96 bits because there's various
information that's header information or
overhead up here but I'm not showing you
here because it's just beyond the scope
of our class and this is good enough for
us okay so in other words what happens
is your computer has a few billion bits
it looks through those bits and it
somehow decides yes this this is the
place where my walrus is gonna live here
is the weight here is the tusks size and
there it goes
so what's interesting about the new
keyword is that we can think of it not
only as going out to the massive field
of bits and finding a home for the
information the walrus but we can also
think of it as reporting where it put
the walrus so if I go to the fields and
I bury a treasure I mean that's a great
the treasures in the field now but if I
ever want to see that treasure again or
something like let someone know where it
is I have to report that information
that out there in the corner of the
field that's where the treasure is so
what will happen is that the new keyword
you could think of it as returning the
value or the number of bit in memory
where it put the walrus so it's very
natural it's a sequence of bits that
what new can just do is return okay hey
you know where I put that wonderful
walrus I put it in bit number two
billion 384 million seven hundred
twenty-three thousand four hundred and
twenty-three and that will be the so
call or you can think of that as the
return value of the new keyword okay so
it goes out there buries the treasure
and it shouts to the heavens this is
where I've put this treasure this
wonderful walrus yeah so what well let's
talk a little bit about the declaration
of a variable that's a reference type so
before we've been talking about
instantiation how new works now let's
talk about declaration so if I have a
piece of code that declares that a
walrus exists or that a dog exists so
that a planet exists what Java will do
is it will allocate a box of exactly 64
bits no matter what type of object it's
a reference type that's just what's
gonna happen and then these bits can
either be set to null that is all zeros
or it could be set to the address of a
specific instance of that class as
returned by new so let's this very
simple example
if I say walrus some walrus and then say
some walrus equals null well that first
line what it does this creates a box of
64 bits and this second line equals null
sets it all equal to zero as a marker to
say well it's nothing right no by
contrast if I say walrus some walrus
that creates a box of 64 bits and then
say equals new walrus and what's going
to happen is that after new goes out to
the field and it digs to the hole and
puts the delicious delicious walrus
that's not nice
our lovely walrus in the in the field
and then shouts here's the location of
the walrus this serves as a record of
that information so if we got put in
location 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 yada yada that is
going to be what we store in this box so
even though the war is itself is 96 bits
the address that we store is 64 bits and
it's just in a modern Java Runtime
environment 64 bits is the size of the
address that's how many bits we use to
represent this number right here ok so
while this notation does give us a
fairly accurate picture of what's going
on and again you know I kind of fudge
things a little bit and when you go to
61 C or even an operating systems class
you get a really under more honest
understanding well this is good enough
for our purpose in 61 B it's not
particularly instructive to look at this
giant stream of bits and expect to know
anything so what I'm going to do is
similar to before we're not going to
show explicitly the binary information
shown in a memory box we're gonna
instead use this simplified box notation
and in this case whenever we were
talking about reference types this this
notation will often be called box and
pointer okay so what is it so whenever
we have a null a bunch of zeros we're
just gonna write null in the Box because
having 64 zeros in a row is just a waste
of space and if we ever have a non zero
address that is sorry and that is if
this address is anything other than
zeros then we're going to draw an arrow
to whichever object the walrus is
pointing at so instead of showing this
right here this sequence of seemingly
random 64 bits will draw an address that
shows
which walrus were talking about here's a
96 bit walrus here's a 64 bit box hold
an address and there as a pointer hence
the name box and pointer notation you
may not realize it but you now know
everything you need to solve the mystery
of the walrus so I mentioned the golden
rule of equals that equals just copies
the bits that's all it does now that's
true for prototypes but it actually is
also true for reference types and in
fact for any situation in Java where you
say equals so in terms of our visual
metaphor what that means is we're gonna
copy the arrow by making if we say for
example B equals a we're gonna make the
arrow in the B box point at the same
instance as a so let's see that in terms
of box and pointer notation so when I
say walrus a what does that do well that
creates a box of 64 bits there it is and
I've only shown it very small and it
could have made a huge box but we know
it's 64 bits because look that's all
right there now when I say a equals new
walrus the new key word goes out the
memory finds the bits it needs the 96
bits and it shouts the location which a
will dutifully record
so this walrus has 96 bits the new
keyword yellows the address we store the
address here and rather than writing out
that 64 bit address we draw an arrow
because that's easier to understand next
up we say walrus B this creates a box
which is 64 bits so both a and B are 64
bits and at this point B is not defined
right it's not that it's normal right
now it's just nothing it's just some box
of 64 bits who knows what's in there and
we say B equals say we're gonna copy
that string of bits remember there's 64
bits here if we have the bit picture
it'd just be a string of 64 bits we'll
copy them into this box and so at that
point when we say P equals a V is
pointing at the same object so now if we
were to try and do something like B dot
wait it's saying follow the arrow go to
the walrus you will find the information
you seek and in that case you might say
B dot weight equals something so I hope
now it's clear why the mystery of the
walrus is resolved the way it does and
that's all you need to know to
understand the whole deal